---
layout: post
title: About Me
date: 2021-09-06
description: You’ll find this post in your `_posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. # Add post description (optional)
img: aboutme.jpg # Add image post (optional)
fig-caption: # Add figcaption (optional)
tags: [CV, AboutMe]
---

Hi, I am Jing Long, a data analyst with a background in Economics and Business Analytics. I enjoy the process of getting valuable insights out of data, from the first ideas around what you want to achieve, through data preparation, analysis and visualisation, all the way to the business implications. Thinking like an economist and acting like a data scientist is what I want to do.

### My Education Background  

- **MSc Business Analytics**, **Imperial College London**, 2021  
<span style="border-bottom:2px dashed orange;">Core courses:</span> Data Structure and Algorithms, Fundamentals of Database Technologies, Statistics and Econometrics, Advanced Machine Learning, Network Analytics, Optimisation and Decision models, Digital Marketing Analytics, Analytics in Business, Financial Analytics, Energy Analytics, Visualisation, etc.  
<span style="border-bottom:2px dashed orange;">Tools:</span> Python, R, PostgreSQL, Tableau, AMPL, Excel.

- **MSc Economics**, **The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology**, 2014  
- **BA Economics**, **Université Toulouse 1 Capitole(Toulouse School of Economics)**, 2013  
<span style="border-bottom:2px dashed orange;">Core courses:</span> Macroeconomics, Microeconomics, Econometrics, Mathematics, Statistics, Game theory, Corporate Finance, Information Economics, etc.  
<span style="border-bottom:2px dashed orange;">Tools:</span> SAS, Eviews.

I have a passion for both Economics and Data Science. The courses I love the most during my study are statistics, machine learning and network analystics, not only because I am good at them(yay!) but also because I am fascinated by the amazing power of algorithm and network effect in our daily life.  

### My Career Experience

- **Research Assistant**, **School of Applied Economics**, **Renmin University of China**, 2021  
Research area: Renewables ownership and market structure in electricity market.  
Main responsibility: data preparation and analysis by Python, ppt.  

- **Research Analyst**, **Energy Talent Consulting Company**, 2019 \- 2020  
Project involved: Design of the electrcity market monitering system
Main responsibility: design system metrics, data preparation and analysis by Python and Excel, report writing and presentation.  
Achievements: two annual reports, a core journal paper and two methods have been applied for national patents.

- **Assistant Project Manager**, **Corporate Business Dempartment**, **Southwest Securities Company**, 2018  
Participate in project due diligence, transaction structure design and contract negotiation. Track management and risk of invested projects.

- **Accounting Teller**, **Operation Dempartment**, **Bank of Communications**, 2015 \- 2017  
Provide customized banking services to individual and commercial customers. Check daily cash inventory and balance account. Report daily cash budget.  





