---
layout: post
title: NetEase Cloud Music Case Study
date: 2021-09-15
description: analysis of the NetEase Cloud Music (NCM) business case and the accompanying data set
img: ncm.png # Add image post (optional)
fig-caption: # Add figcaption (optional)
tags: [NetEase, Case Study, Business, Recommender System]
---

In order to help NetEase Cloud Music (NCM) enhance user experience and ultimately improve its user engagement, we aim to differentiate inactive users from active users and build a customized recommender system. In this report we provide a summary of our findings from analysis of the NCM business case and the accompanying data set. The code used to perform the analysis and develop recommender systems can be found in the github.

This report is structured around 4 main sections:  
**1. Introduction and Business Goals**  

**2. User Characteristics and Preferences**  
- A detailed analysis of the NCM dataset to produce insight and understanding regarding user characteristics and preferences
- Models to predict user activity from early actions  

**3. Recommender System**  
- A review of recommender system best practice
- Recommender systems for NCM and their relative merits  

**4. Business Implications**  
- Recommendations to NCM 

# 1. Introduction and Business Goals

### About NCM
NetEase Cloud Music (NCM) is one of the largest Chinese companies in the growing music/video streaming market. NCM has become very popular as a free music streaming service since 2013, with its major product being a mobile app with five main tabs:
- Discovery (recommended albums and playlists)
- Podcast (a single feed of podcast)
- My Own Music (locally stored and liked own music and playlist)
- Following (posts from the accounts you're following)
- Cloud Village (feeds of short music content cards recommended to a user)

The focus of this business report and the data challenge is on the Cloud Village platform, where users can post short videos or sets of images with a specific music. Cloud village tab can be divided into two subtabs (on the top):
- Music Square \- shows two vertical streams of music video cards recommended to a user by the NCM recommender system. Categories includes Music Collection, Hot Music, Musician, Live Music, Original Music, Music video, Dance,...
- Karaoke Room \- shows two vertical streams of individual rooms for social acitivities such as chat, sing, games and even study. Users can join the existing rooms or create their own rooms.

### The data
We are provided with four categories of data (impressions, cards, creators and users) from NCM Cloud Village fully described in Zhang et al.(2020). In particular, the data includes information for over 57 million Impressions associated with over 2 million users from November 1st to November 30th 2019. The impressions in the data refers to the display of a card to a user. Users in the data do not contain the entire population of users, but it is a randomly sampled subset of users from those who have accessed the tab at least once in the sample period. According to Zhang et al.(2020),the data is spread across 6 tables that can be joined and combined to offer a full representation of the events: 
- Impression_data.csv - Impression level data (57.7 mil. rows) with 13 data fields including user actions
- Mlog_deomgraphics.csv - Card level data (253k rows) with static information on the cards
- Mlog_stats.csv - Card-day-level data (4.2 mil rows) with daily summary statistics for the card-user actions
- Creator_demographics.csv - Creator level data (90.5k rows) with static information on content creators
- Creator_stats.csv - Creator-day-level data (2.6 mil. rows) with daily summary statistics for creators
- User_demographics.csv - User data (2 mil. rows) with static information on the users 

### Our goals
Considering the data availability, we focus on the analysis of the **Music Square** in **Cloud Village**. The main goal of the report could be framed as understanding the NCM Cloud Village user base in terms of user activity and deriving insights and models that could help NCM differentiate users and develop customized recommender system, and ultimately improve the user activity and engagement. While there is no information on NCM current recommender system, using the datasets provided on cards impression and users demographic, user classification models and recommender systems could be designed using machine learning techniques, with either supervised learning or unsupervised learning model. The scope of this analysis is limited to developing an effective solution from the user perspective and we will not study on the creators' behaviour at this stage.  
















