---
layout: post
title: RFM Segmentation and Marketing Effectiveness Evaluation
date: 2021-03-01
image: rfm.png
tags: [Digital Marketing]
---

In this project, we analyse the data set representing multi-channel sales campaigns and sales of a gifts company to gain insights into the effectiveness of the various direct-marketing channels -- specifically catalog mailing v.s. email. The data set is splitted into two parts to validate all our data-based targeting remmendations below. The point of this splitting is to mimic a sample mailing(which realistically we cannot do). Details of our analysis are shown below:  

**Section A - Interesting analytical questions**  
We raised two interesting analytical questions we can ask the data, and study the data to give answers.  
- Compare the order methods for response order by different contact type.  
- Compare the average & total response order spend by different contact type.  

**Section B - RFM segmentation and Campaign ROI**  
We segmented data using the RFM dimensions(5 quantiles for each dimension). Then estimated response rates for each RFM cell and made a decision on how many to mail. Lastly, we validated it on a sample mailing to calculate ROI of the campaign.  
- Exploring Data  
- Splitting Data  
- RFM segmentation  
- Sample Mailing  

**Section C - Add Another Dimension to Target**  
We chose another dimension to add to target and justified our choice based on business/common-sense and data.  
- Additional Dimensions  
- New Segmentation  
- Sample Mailing   

**Section D - Conclusion and Recommendation**  

**Section E - Limitations and Ideas for Improvements**  

***

# <span style="border-bottom:2px solid DarkSeaGreen;color:DarkSeaGreen">Section A - Interesting analytical questions</span>  

## <span style="color:DarkSeaGreen"> A.1 Compare the order methods for response order by different contact type </span> 

*In the following analysis, an order within 7 days of a contact will be recognized as a response order.*  




















